I never stopped to count what I was doing.
I just worked on it with a passion.
The idea was not to see how much I could collect.
Yes, oh, come on now.
No, it wasn't.
You still wanted a premier collection.
Yes, but it wasn't to see how much quantitative... Oh, no, no, you certainly weren't moved by linear feet.
No, I wasn't.
I was moved by trying to do more in a scholarly way.
I mean, this is a question of significance, if we can create a work.
Yeah, right, it was a question of that.
People talk about trivia.
I say, how about significance?
Let me tell you what else happened.
The more effective I was at acquiring these materials, at finding the people,
the easier it got with the next person to impress upon that person or that family or the children of those people that what L.D.
Brodsky was up to was significant in its own right.
And that if I could acquire your mother's materials, or if I could acquire your materials, sir, I can put them in a repository where they will not get eaten by the dog or silverfish, where they will not get scattered and gone, and furthermore,
And though I never, I put this always more eloquently, the essence was I can memorialize the role you played in the life of Faulkner through your artifacts.
I will put them in books.
I will explode them, as it were.
I will disclose them.
Then I will describe them with my collaborator, Bob.
We will make them important in their own right.
We will give them a context.
And I used to persuade people with that kind of a thing.
And most people that I dealt with
because they were Faulkner's friends, were necessarily literate, very intelligent, very topical in terms of their knowledge of what's going on.
Right people, that was something.
That was a treat, too.
And I told you that I met people all the time and that that was what my book collecting consisted of, was people collecting.
It was collecting Faulkner.
It was a pleasure to be in the company of almost all the people I ever met because they were so much more than normal in their intellects, which makes sense.
because Faulkner only really consorted with two kinds of people, and consort is the wrong word, but he was associated with really only two kinds of people.
And they are?
They are either the really intelligent, literate, artistic, cultured person, or the hunting buddy type.
There was really no in-between for Faulkner.
He wouldn't conch in ignorance.
The only time he ever put up with ignorance was when it was with his drinking buddies on a hunt.
And he knew how to deal with that.
And he could do real well with writing that.
He could deal with illiterates as long as they were people like Ryder and Pantaloon and Nancy and Dilsey.
He could deal with that kind of ignorance and he had great respect and compassion.
Well, it was ignorance and it was illiteracy.
Every person we can't read is not ignorant.
Right.
What he had no patience with.
Some of the biggest asphalt in the world in Harvard degrees.
Well, that's exactly why L.D.
did not go on at Washington U. And I'm not going to say that categorically, that's what he deployed.
It seems to abound in the very places where the most intelligence and literacy should be.
You seem to get the most arrogance.
Robert Coles, a great Robert Coles.
It's not enough to be on tape.
We're back on again.
Okay, I'm just going to show you a few more things.
Early fragments from Phil Stone's archive.
And these were saved.
These were the earliest stuff from 1918, 1919, 1920.
In 1942, there was a fire in Phil Stone's home.
Hold it up a little bit, so I can get you on the document.
Oh, you know what?
Yeah, we'll see if I can... Hold on, you can try to focus, but it's having a hard time.
There it is.
There was a fire.
These were preserved.
These were dug up out of croaker sacks.
Or a lot of them were just stacks that had been underground.
And they hadn't, had they been underground or they were on the porch.
I know what it was.
The porch collapsed.
The closet.
The roof collapsed.
The closet collapsed.
And the roof collapsed on top of all the stuff that fell down under it.
I don't think it was outdoors.
They said they took it outdoors to dry it out.
It had been under there for a long time.
Years.
For 10 years, when Carvel went, Carvel brought it out of the old burned wreckage.
He and Emily.
And Emily.
The reason a lot of these didn't burn completely was Phil had tied up stacks of Faulkner's early manuscripts.
These are the earliest known manuscripts.
And we have quite a number of these fragments.
We call them the stone fragments.
These are absolutely sensational.
This is his early handwriting.
You can see how different it was.
It's very effeminate.
It's very florid.
You know what they are of?
Yeah, we've worked on all of them.
A lot of them are from a book he never published at the time called Vision in Spring.
No, that's recently published by Texas.
Yes.
Some of these are manuscripts from that.
Yes, we've identified most of them, and we've got them in a new book, Volume 5.
In the early, in the 50s.
There's a piece of his marble font.
Texas acquired 80 pieces of these burned fragments from stone.
When I was down there in February, they were working on them.
Right.
They were doing so many a year, each year.
And for some reason, they overlooked these or a stone hill.
Can't you?
You see that smell never goes away, does it?
I presume Stone just held some back.
He didn't let Texas have all of them.
He did.
He wanted to keep these.
He was very fond of these.
He didn't get lost.
It was his student.
He was very prized.
One thing we haven't touched on is the way L.D.
going public, that is with exhibits and publishing materials, has also augmented his collection, his opportunities to collect.
Usually after an exhibit, somebody contacts him.
One time the lady read in the St.
Louis paper, she thought it was my collection.
So she wrote me the letter, and she had this oil painting done by Faulkner's mother.
And so I sent LD the letter.
I wrote her and said, well, if you've mistaken me, Mr. Brodsky is the collector, and I'll send the letter on to him.
And two weeks later, I was at Farmington.
And L.D.
already had the oil painting hanging on the wall.
I'd have been over to acquire it, you know.
I spoke in Montgomery, Alabama a couple of years ago, and there was a lady who came up and said she'd heard me talking about these fragments and all.
She says, I have a burned fragment, a piece that Emily Stone had given me.
I'd forgotten when I went to Montgomery that that's where Emily was living for a while.
And so...
The work that we've done... The publishing that L.D.
has done and so on, the exhibits have created additional opportunities to collect.
This is the kind of stuff.
It goes on and on and on.
It blows my mind.
I started out as one kind of a collector, and I never would have dreamed that we would ever put together materials like this.
Nick, I can't tell you what a...
just the scintillating feeling it is to know that I was able to bring all this together.
There is no sense of pride in ownership.
I never got that.
It was very strange.
The more I would accumulate, paradoxically, the less sense of pride in ownership I felt.
Because the greater the collection grew, the more I knew that I didn't deserve it any longer.
Because Faulkner belongs to all of us.
His literature does.
And I felt equally so.
that his artifacts did.
And I really did grow into that feeling.
And I grew into that feeling maybe 15 years ago.
It was that strong sense that the materials belonged to all of us that allowed me to go ahead and try to acquire as much of it as I could.
I had a great deal of versatility, a manipulative quality to me.
I understood people's psychologies.
I understood how to get to most people.
I never felt I ever deceived anyone
I tried to pay what I had available.
I wasn't exactly real wealthy.
I told you this whole collection got put together for a certain sum.
It was really modest.
When I told you that I bought the one archive of Warner Brothers scripts for the equivalent of $8,000, that's the truth.
But that's a credit to my own acumen, if you will.
And I'm not bending my arm when I say that.
It is a credit.
Well, it is.
But it's also I was versatile.
And I was savvy enough.
to do these things, but I never, ever once felt I deceived anyone.
And I would size up a situation and try to figure out, now, what is it going to take to acquire these?
I told you the story of Vance Broach.
It just required quantitative duplicates, a lot of them, and one cherished book, The Marble Fawn.
With someone else, it required something else.
How am I going to get the Phil Stone collection?
Well, I'm going to sell off a bunch of slot machines and a bunch of horn phonographs, and then I'm going to borrow half the money
And that's what I'm going to do.
Each thing presented a different, each acquisition presented a different challenge.
And I almost never failed.
I failed twice.
And that was real disappointing.
Well, one time was interestingly enough with Chooky Faulkner, Jimmy's brother, William's other nephew.
How do you spell Chooky?
Chooky, C-H-O-O-K-Y, isn't it?
C-H-O-O-K-Y, yeah.
Murray.
And I'm not going to get into that story except to say that he had some wonderful letters and inscribed books.
They ended up going to Virginia.
I should have had them.
I worked at it for a long time and didn't end up acquiring them, and it wasn't because I didn't... I don't want to get into that story.
They paid?
I paid more.
I offered more.
Point is, I guess,
You can't win them all.
I was very fortunate.
Who had them?
Murray had them, Jerry Jr., Chucky, had them, and they ended up going to Virginia.
And there was one other acquisition that I missed, too, and I've forgotten why now.
I guess it is to say, finally, that you work at it, and you don't win them all.
But I won more than my share of them.
And you don't look back either when you win.
No, you don't look back.
And I'll tell you another trick about collecting, too.
You size up what's there, and you decide, I'm either going to go for it because I'm going for the long haul, because I'm committed to collecting, because if this one's too expensive, the next one will be, I'll get it right.
You have to develop a sense of balance, of equanimity, so that if you blow it on one, it'll wash out in the next.
You can't lament.
But you better get what's there and work at any way you need to do it to get it if you're going to succeed.
You just have to.
And one of the things I learned developing on was that you better not get staggered as the prices vary on you from year to year or month to month.
You got to go with the flow.
Because as Faulkner became more interesting to collect, the prices got more heady.
And they continued to get headier.
And it got harder to play the game.
Now it's pretty tough to play the game.
He says we blew his cover.
Who said this?
He had been to the Faulkner Conference how many years in a row?
Five years or so in a row, and the people at Ole Miss had never figured out he was a collector.
When I met him, he was not exactly a closet collector, but he certainly had not gone public, and that's why he was able to do some of the negotiations behind the scenes, and one of the concerns that he had
early on about going public, that he's doing an exhibit, was that it would blow his cover.
It would make it more difficult for him, in part, to do some of the things that he... On the one hand.
But it opened up other doors.
And it not only gave me more exposure and opened up doors, it created a credibility for me.
And it did.
And that was ultimately the salutary
Aspect of it.
Yeah, see what my piece appears in the I told you that piece of the New York Times Can I tell you that?
I'm doing a piece for the Times.
What we do.
Oh, wonderful.
You have to go ahead.
What's it on?
I mean, collecting.
Oh, wonderful.
Did I tell you that?
No.
I haven't written it yet.
I'm submitting it in January.
But I believe when that piece is published, I'm going to hear from
I mean, the tank, I mean, we're full.
But you never know.
I mean, there might be something just exquisite that you ignore at your peril.
But I'm sure that with a 1.8 million circulation book, you're one of those essays, you know?
Yeah, that's wonderful.
Yeah, I expect that.
Yeah.
Is that what Bob said?
Yeah, we covered that.
Okay, good.
Well, we'll show him on the way out.
Let me show you two more books and then we'll call it quits so we can take a drive home.
I'm starting to poop out.
I want to show you Flynn Snopes' copy.
This is the Marble Con.
Oh, I would not have wanted to go home.
This one's lovely.
This one's really lovely.
This is a gorgeous jacketed copy.
Oh, my God.
It's really beautiful.
It should be protected better than this, and it will be.
But this is the copy that Faulkner inscribed to Joe Parks, who was the man that took over his grandfather's bank in Oxford, who they think was the prototype for Clem Stokes.
So that was signed to Joe Parks, who actually ousted his grandfather from the bank.
He signed twice, didn't he?
I sure did.
Look at that.
William Parker, Oxford, Mississippi, 24... December.
December, 1924.
Just take the ginger ginger there.
Just let me place it in my hands.
Wow, that's beautiful.
That's really exquisite.
We're holding the marble faun, F-A-U-N.
This is it.
That's the first one.
And that's one of the great inscribed copies.
That's beautiful.
I'm going to show him one more after this.
I'm going to show you just two more books.
This is a book I'm very fond of.
This came out of Faulkner's library.
Faulkner wanted to be a poet.
That was his great dream, as I told you, to be a poet.
He always regarded himself, as I said, a failed poet.
He did the next best thing, he said.
He wrote fiction.
This was his book of the Oxford book of English first.
It came out of his library.
What are all these little... These were notations that some book dealer apparently put in.
Oh, yeah.
But it's okay.
It's not bad.
$2,500 I paid for it.
I couldn't believe it.
It ended up in Jenkins' book catalog.
A man got it out of Oxford and surreptitiously sold it.
I saw it in the book catalog.
It had just come out, but the book, which, you know, by the time you get a book catalog, other people have seen the stock and bought this book.
No one wanted it.
No one had made a phone call for this book.
This, to me, was one of the most significant books that you could have with Franklin.
The Oxford Book of English Press.
Yes, because he absolutely admired it, and it was the 1924 edition, the year of his marble form.
I think it's one of the great Faulkner books in this collection.
I want to show you one final book that is unequivocally the best.
I will now show you the best if I can find it, and I can.
This is truly a unique, one-of-a-kind Faulkner book.
He typed each page.
He bound it by hand.
He stapled it.
He inscribed it in typescript to his daughter-in-law, sorry, his stepdaughter-to-be, who was Cho Cho.
He made this book, The Wishing Tree.
And that's the little book.
Go ahead.
That one just don't crack it, of course.
This is The Wishing Tree, Wishing Dash Trees.
Can I open it?
Yes, sure.
Now you can take us.
This is one of the great books.
You should consider yourself very privileged.
In part, that's true because you're so knowledgeable about books and all.
The wishing tree for his dear friend Viscoria on her eighth birthday.
Bill, he made this book.
Hold that open, L.D.
A lot of the people, what I'm saying, a lot of the people that interview L.D., he's a little more reluctant to let them handle the material.
Well, I appreciate that.
But he knows that he wants to handle them.
I agree.
Well, and he knows how to handle them, and he knows books and all.
A lot of the people who come in here for interviews have never been around a rare book.
That's for sure.
Oh, that's just what it is.
This is one of the great books.
There is a copy of a book.
There's one called Helen Courtship.
There's one called May Day.
And there's one called The Wishing Tree.
These all came within about a half year period where he made these little gift books.
And he gave them.
And this he gave ostensibly to Estelle's daughter, Victoria.
But in fact, it was, I feel strongly, that it was a gesture, a courting gesture.
This is really beautiful.
It's one of the really great books.
If you were a book collector,
and could get this one book, you probably wouldn't have to collect any of the rest of the collection.
If you own just this one book, you could say, I've got the best partner at Ridgetown.
This one came from Victoria's daughter, Victoria, and it came, I snatched it up.
This was the one that was at Virginia.
I snatched this.
There was material in here that was at Princeton, there was material that was at Roanoke, there was material that was at Virginia.
This is how it goes for you.
This one came right out of Virginia, and they were a gas.
I'll tell you that story in the car.
Do you remember?
Sure.
That one and the one about the money.
We're just talking about this, the widow O'Callaghan's book, which William signed when he was 11 years old.
You said that you got it for $50 because a man wanted the owner.
He wanted a real nice dinner.
He wanted to go out to dinner, and he knew you were collecting, so you... He wanted me to have the book.
He would have given me the book.
He actually had offered to give me the book.
I said, how about a great dinner?
He said, that would be wonderful.
He was a very kind man.
He wasn't a collector.
He was very close friends with John's wife.
John was already dead, but John's wife was still alive, Lucille Ramey Fong.
And Lucille had given him the book.
So you paid $50.
I gave him $50.
And I said, would $50 be fine?
This was about eight or 10 years ago in Oxford.
And I didn't give him more because it would have been inappropriate to give him more.
I wasn't going to offer this man $1,000 or $2,000 because he was giving me a gift.
He had worked with me down there on an exhibit.
He wanted me to have the book.
He had virtually given me the book.
He said, I want you to put this in your collection.
I said, how about a nice dinner?
He said, oh, I'd love a real nice dinner.
And you have been offered $35,000 for this book by another collector, by a dealer?
By a dealer.
But I wouldn't sell the book because it's, I wouldn't sell it simply because it's part of the collection.
And if I ever had sold it, it would be only, the only impulse there would be to have
Sold it to buy manuscripts.
But this book is too early.
This book is really lovely.
This is from the cradle.
This is close to the cradle.
This is when the formative billy was beginning at age 11.
Are you taking this or is it?
No, but if you want to borrow it.
Is that your inscribed copy?
I don't have an inscribed copy.
Carl did sign one, didn't he?
What do you do when they provide pleasure from the pallet?
We've got time now.
We're in the car.
One of the reassuring things for me, Nick, has been that in acquiring the materials, not from book dealers, but rather from those who have owned the materials and have been given the materials by Faulkner or had them come to them through their family, the reassuring thing has been that I know they're authentic.
And quite often, I can look at a Faulkner signature, such as a number of signatures in both the Stone Archive and the
Cummins archive were signed when Faulkner was so drunk, they would not have asked my muster had they come to me from a book dealer and simply been signed but not presented.
I've seen even, I've got a book inscribed to Phil Stone, W-I-L-L-L-I-A-M.
I've got another one that is worse than that, but I've forgotten how it goes now.
But some of them were written, especially toward the later years.
I have a couple copies of the town that are presentation copies.
I'll try to pull this out right.
One of them he did to his step-granddaughter, Victoria Johnson, my friend, inscribed the book to her when he had gone up to visit her at school.
And it said,
Oh, shit.
Where did she go?
I want to say Bryn Mawr.
And so he said to Vic Pick from Abbey, Bryn Mawr, Mississippi.
And I'll confirm that with you because it was wonderful.
But instead of Massachusetts, it came out not M-A-S-S, but in fact M-I-S-S.
But there were so many that he signed.
Isn't Bryn Mawr in Pennsylvania?
Well, then I've got the wrong one, because it's something in Massachusetts.
Yeah, Vassar, my whole wheel.
You've got to look it up.
But the point is, you've got it on tape.
And the real point is, there are signatures that if I myself didn't know the provenance of, I would have also found it real questionable.
You mentioned the thing about Princeton.
and about how they're hoping to get the shiny collection and believe they will.
They probably will, yeah.
They have had on file for the last 30 years the Saks Cummins, Dorothy Cummins materials, which are absolutely wonderful.
They are voluminous.
Many, many manuscripts of Eugene O'Neill, C.P.
Snow, all the people that Saks Cummins worked with, they had four wonderful containers of manuscripts and letters
on trial there, on deposit, that they knew they were going to be the recipient of at some point.
When I met Dorothy Cummins, first I wrote her.
I corresponded a number of times before she felt comfortable enough to invite me to come up.
I think I told you I would tell you the story about the resentment that she had for Joe Blotner because he had virtually excluded her husband from his biography.
She knew exactly how important Saks Cummins was to Faulkner in the last 20 years of Faulkner's life.
Actually, almost 25 years.
Dorothy and Sacks had been like mother and father to Faulkner in the last decade of his life when he had terrible drinking problems.
In the mid to early 50s, and throughout the 50s really, Faulkner virtually spent a great deal of time at the Cummins residence in Princeton.
Sacks had acquired many, many letters that he'd kept, lots of manuscripts.
They were all, after Sacks' death at 58, Dorothy kept them for two or three or four years, more or less inventoried them, put them on deposit.
Fortunately, no one had been allowed to get in them.
I knew they were there.
When I came up finally to visit Dorothy in Princeton, the very first time I came up, all we did was
meet, and I got to meet her daughter, Frances Cummins Bennett, the wife of William Bennett, who was the master of Silliman College at Yale.
That was to my great good fortune, because as it turned out, I was not only a Yaley,
But I had spent three years in Sillman College, so we had a lot in common.
There were other things in common.
Most importantly was my appreciation of her husband, of Dorothy's husband, Sax, and an understanding that I had that I was equally riveted because Blotner had virtually excluded Sax from his biography.
Well, she liked that because she really had felt slighted.
She had a great love for her and respect for her deceased husband.
I spent the first trip just talking with them and letting them get to know me.
I went home with two inscribed copies that Frannie Cummins Bennett had brought with her from New Haven down to Princeton that weekend.
That was all they were going to allow me to buy.
Those were two that Frannie had on her shelves.
I thought, well, that's fine.
I knew there was more.
I didn't get to see much more that first trip.
The second trip I came back, at that point, we unloaded all of the books out of the house.
At that point, they decided to sell me the books.
They trusted me.
So Dorothy said, it was on Franny's behest that Dorothy, who was going to hold onto those things forever, Dorothy was already in her high 80s, but she was going to hold onto those.
Her daughter impressed upon her that I was not only honest and reputable at what I was doing,
But what I was doing was real significant.
I told Dorothy that I would try to address that problem, that imbalance.
And I began writing all about sax.
And you heard Bob Hamlin say the upshot of that was that in the one volume 1984 Faulkner biography, Faulkner interpolated sax in all over the place to show how important a role he played in Faulkner's last 25 years.
That second trip, I went home with a couple suitcases of books, association copies, Sax's copies of Faulkner's books, and a bunch of inscribed copies, and I showed you a couple of them at the collection today.
I came back up for a third visit.
Dorothy said, I want to tell you, I walked in the front door.
She had just had a cab deliver four big boxes from the Firestone Library.
They were mortified.
They couldn't believe she was asking to take them out.
They acquiesced to her wishes. They sent them over in a cab that she requested just like that. They were sitting in Dorothy's living room, the four boxes on a settee when I arrived that saturday morning. Do wished me a very cordial welcome and then she said LD
I've got these things here that you wanted to see, but I must tell you right now, I gave my absolute promise to the head of the library, and I've forgotten his name, that I would have these bounces back Monday morning sharp.
And my heart dropped.
Because I thought, as I arrived there, well, this is the third visit.
I know that Francis Franny
would like me to have those materials because she knew what I was going to do with them, which was to keep them in one place and deal with them and publish them and make sure that people knew these were sacks as artifacts.
I knew after I walked in that morning that I wasn't about to get those materials.
There was no way because she was absolutely resolute when she looked me straight in the eye and said, LD, these are here for you to look at.
Here they are.
But I have given my promise to such and such as I told you.
So I thought right away, uh-oh, how are you going to look around this one?
You are dead.
There was no way.
So I almost didn't want to look at him because that would be too upsetting.
Well, we got into that.
It turned out that Francis and Bill took the train down from New Haven because they wanted to be with me again.
And we had a lovely afternoon and a lovely evening.
And to cut that story short, by Sunday morning, Frannie had convinced her mother that I was the right person to have those artifacts.
And there was, among that group, were 125 letters from Faulkner to Sacks and Dorothy Cummins.
many of them had written letters.
That was just part of it.
There were all kinds of manuscripts of essays that you left there.
All the materials, there were 50 pages of Fable manuscript, 50 pages of Requiem for a Polograph.
Yeah, they're there.
I didn't show them to you there.
Fantastic materials.
Franny had convinced Doe
that I was the one to have them, that Princeton had abused them by not even keeping them well.
They kept them downstairs where it was wet.
I had showed them where all the staples were rusting.
I said, you're letting these things get ruined.
They're not being treated right.
I wasn't trying to do Princeton.
I was trying to show them.
I'm going to stop here.
You're going to come talk.
All right.
By Sunday afternoon, when Franny and Bill left to return to New Haven,
Doe was extremely pleased.
I had written them a check for $30,000.
That money was to be split between Franny, her brother, and Doe.
It was not a matter of money, though they considered that a pretty good sum.
That was more than I had.
When the boat was this?
This was maybe in 85.
That's pretty recent.
84.
It was recent.
We can look it up.
I had worked for about a year before Doe would even
respond to me, really.
And the result was I went home with these precious, precious manuscripts.
Well, they just sent letters.
So Princeton had no... Oh, so the upshot of all that was that when Princeton discovered Monday morning that there were no boxes returned to them, the archival boxes, they called over.
And they were absolutely mortified to learn that they were no longer in Dorothy's possession, that they had gone to St.
Louis to the collector, Louis Brodsky, who they knew.
And they were beside themselves.
Oh, why didn't you give us a chance to buy them?
And at that point, Dorothy told me that angered her.
She said, if they had really wanted them, why didn't they ever make an offer before?
And Franny had already told her that Sunday, because they'd been there for many, many years.
They assumed they were going to be given.
I said, no one should make that assumption.
And that is not a given thing.
The assumption is not a given.
I pulled them right out from her.
I'm going to tell you something that was a coup.
May but may not be on there.
Let me tell you how it happened.
It wasn't money.
It was trust.
And it wouldn't have happened even with Dorothy, who loved me and who did trust me.
But she was too set in her ways and she was too old.
And she wasn't going to make any changes because Sachs had put him there.
And Doe, I guess, had put him there after he died.
Franny knew and knew that I was honest and that my intentions were good.
And so it was never a matter of discussing money.
I made an offer and they accepted it.
I said, this is all I can pay.
I think this is quite fair.
Well, it was and it wasn't.
I mean, how was I going to pay for them?
That's great.
Have you checked anybody from Princeton?
No.
They didn't try to.
The nature of a collector is to be a schlepper.
Have you dealt with that one?
We're all, we're all, um, schleppers.
I'll go for it.
Okay.
Well, what I mean, I guess by that, and you probably already know too well what I mean by that, is that we haul stuff.
We're haulers.
We move shit around.
I thought they used to have a phone here.
Where'd it go?
I think... Oh, fuck.
I know they did.
I think it's on the other side of the... See, it used to be right there.
It's on the other side of the... Okay.
On the other side of the... Okay.
I'll go look, because I want to make sure, and if not, I'll go over there.
I just don't want to fail.
I want to not fail to do this.
Oh, good.
You saw it.
I see it now.
They did move it.
That's good.
How do you like that?
Well, I see why they moved it.
They expanded their space.
They never used to have this lacing in this truck.
Let me just do that real quick.
So, oh, remind me to tell you the story to add on to that.
I'm not going to get into that whole story with you now.
That's a whole different story.
I've tried to stay on the book collecting.
But why I am the way I am is because the tensions that power my dynamic have come out of those two basic instincts.
One was to be what my dad had been, which was part of our heritage.
And the other part was to be not an esthetician, but a poet, an artist.
And all that stuff combined in a real nice way finally, but not without a lot of pain.
Yeah.
You said there's another story.
Yeah, I want to just add to the Princeton story with the Cummins archive.
On the second visit, when I brought back a lot of books, those were inscribed books, and I showed you some.
They were association copies.
Did you pull that out of Princeton, too?
No, no.
Those came out of Dorothy Cummins' house.
Okay, we know about that.
On Elm Street.
Well, what I was going to tell you about the story, it was kind of funny.
It has also been part of the whole bag, if you will, of collecting for me.
is that I have been a schlepper.
I own one of Client Brooks' wonderful old suitcases, I have one of Jim Silver's suitcases, and I have one of Sacks Cummins'.
It seems that wherever I'd go, I would underestimate myself, and I would come back, as I did on that second trip from the Cummins home, with his entire Faulkner collection of his own shelf copies.
And I had to go write notes and put them in all of them, because Sacks, unlike most people, had a habit of not writing his name in his books, none of them in his library.
I take that fact.
He had one copy of Absalom, Absalom, the first book he edited for coffee.
It says Sacks Cummins on the pastedown.
But all the rest of them didn't have his name in them.
I had Doe make up provenance papers, if you will, pedigrees that we put in all those.
She sat up one night with her little shaky hand writing those wonderful notes and was very proud to do it on her stationery.
I came home, the upshot, I'd gone up with one bag, and I thought, fine, and my little handbag.
I came back with four bags, and I was in real big trouble because I was taking the commuter back from Princeton into New York, and it arrived at the one station.
that I had to then go from the one station over to another station.
And so I had to get the four bags off of the commuter all the way through that enormous station, whichever, I think it was Pennsylvania station, but I'm not sure.
It could have been.
It was a nightmare.
It was an absolute nightmare trying to get those four heavy bags.
Those two bags that I borrowed from them to fill up with his books.
What was the significance of his books?
They were his books and they were association copies.
For me to have the Faulkner books that Sachs Cummins, his editor, had had in his collection... Yeah, but they aren't signed or anything like that.
No, but now they have the provenance papers in them.
And they're very important, because they weren't Sachs' own books.
But they aren't annotated or anything, they're just his copies.
In that case, that's true.
What archival significance do they have?
Not much.
All I can say is that I can... They're nice.
Well, they were Sachs' copies.
Virtually, yes.
Because I didn't ask Sachs not to do that.
Virtually every other association copy that I brought back and put in the collection has been heavily annotated.
Sachs, of course, wasn't a critic.
Sachs was an editor.
By the time Sachs had the books, they were finished products, is right.
Sax would do all of his noting, blue penciling on the galleys.
It would be nice to have them.
Well, I do have a lot of them.
I have galley proofs.
I have a lot of Sax's.
I won't say I have a lot of them.
I don't have a lot of those.
Those corrections, I don't know where all of those are.
His editorializing, I don't know where all that is.
Not a lot of that, that's true.
Did he fool around a lot with Buckness?
Yes, he fooled around heavily with a fable.
Matter of fact, one of the wonderful things I remember that Doe was telling me one night, she said, the two boys were down on the floor here on their hands and knees with that whole huge manuscript spread out all over our living room floor reordering the manuscript.
And she said, I'll never forget that.
She said, but those two boys, she said, the sad thing was, by the 50s,
They both had gotten old, and they both were very depressed.
And she said, I hated to see that.
She said Bill was always on our doorstep.
She said we'd come home sometime from shopping or something else, and there would be Bill on our doorstep, literally sitting, waiting for us to come home.
In the 50s, he really wasn't around Oxford much at all, and I've documented that in letters and everything else.
One of the great privileges I had, let me tell you about fulfilling the promise I made to Doe Cummins and her daughter, Franny.
One of the great privileges I had
was to bring out volume two of the letters as volume two of a comprehensive guide to the Brodsky collection.
In that volume, we published about 85 or 90 letters from Faulkner to Sachs and Dorothy.
They were just so stunning.
They were wonderful letters.
And they were from Faulkner and from Estelle to Sachs and Dorothy.
So between them, we published about 125 or 30.
And they show you so much about where Faulkner was and where he wasn't in the 50s.
And Estelle so often really physically, literally, did not know where Billy was.
Sax, is Billy and Princeton in your home?
Is he there with you?
Things like that.
That's a wonderful archive.
Yeah, that's nice.
Was there one other thing you were going to tell me about, too?
Yes, one of the other...
if you will, appropriations that I made was, again, a dint of persistence.
I befriended, and it was a long befriending, Victoria Fieldon Johnson, William Faulkner's granddaughter.
I met her in Oxford early on.
I liked her very much.
She was very outspoken.
She disliked all the publicity that surrounded the people in Oxford who were part of the Faulkner family.
And she was part of the Faulkner family and hated to be dealt with sort of officiously.
And so she finally left Oxford
and moved down to Cape Coral, Florida.
I visited her on many occasions, and I interviewed her.
I think she's a very brilliant and very insightful person.
She's our age.
She's about 51.
She lived at Roanoke for many, many years, off and on, and knew her papi.
William Faulkner, extremely well, was very close to Pappy.
I ended up acquiring all of that archive, which was the Fielden archive.
Her mother, Victoria Chocho, Fielden, F-I-E-L-D-E-N.
Victoria's mother, Victoria, also, whom Faulkner had dubbed Chocho when they were young, she had kept many inscribed books.
Well, she had passed away, I said.
So the daughter, Victoria, the only child, had this entire archive of manuscripts, inscribed books, letters, wonderful letters.
I, over a period of time, acquired all those materials from Victoria.
Victoria developed a great trust in me and knew that I also wouldn't capitalize.
One thing I did with Victoria to enforce or enhance
her appreciation of my good intentions.
I said, Victoria, yes, I will buy all these materials from you, but I make you a promise and I'll put it in writing.
And she appreciated that because she didn't want them sold.
She sold them to me because she knew they would stay at Southeast Missouri State in the Brodsky collection.
So when was this really recent as well?
This was done between
it started maybe in 83 or 84 and it went through 88 or 87. I don't know, we'll have to check the dates. Maybe it started fairly recently. Yes, within this past decade. And she wanted them all together. She did need money. She was very glad that someone like myself was acquiring those. She wouldn't put them out in the public.
She allowed me to buy them.
The promise I made her was, Victoria, I guarantee you and promise you that I will never sell these, and that if I ever do, I will allow you to buy them back for the exact price that I paid you for them, no matter what they're worth in the market.
I also put in that agreement, this does not include you having the opportunity to reacquire them if I donate them, if I give them, because that really is, and I knew that was my intention.
and put them in the public domain to donate them.
They were indeed donated to Southeast Missouri State, the state of Missouri.
They were given, and she knew that, and she was very pleased.
She did not want those materials to go to Mississippi.
She hated Mississippi because of the way they had disrespected Pappy.
They had shown the whole Faulkner family great disrespect over the years.
the University of Mississippi until the last few years.
They, like everyone else in Oxford, considered that he was Count No Count, and they treated him accordingly.
It wasn't until the end of the 40s that they began to show him any kind of respect.
And because of that, you asked me why the materials that Faulkner had kept all his manuscripts went to Virginia.
Well, Virginia courted him.
Linton Massey, the great Faulkner collector, put his collection in Virginia.
Linton Massey courted Faulkner.
Faulkner lived in Charlottesville, where the University of Virginia was.
He was the writer-in-residence in 57 through 59.
His daughter, Jill, lived there.
They bought a home there.
It all helped.
He liked being courted.
People there really showed him respect, and so there they went.
Fine.
Victoria's mother, Victoria,
had put her one cherished item at the University of Virginia because she felt it was so valuable. It was a little book, handmade by her stepfather William, Billy, she called him, called The Wishing Tree, a story which Bill, Billy told Victoria was written for her. It was a child story. She kept the other items
at their home.
But she put the one item on deposit, her copy of The Wishing Tree, the one of a kind that you've seen now.
Which I handled.
Which you handled.
It was on deposit at Virginia for years and years.
Victoria and I had talked about it.
She said, well, you know, Mama put that there, and that'll be very difficult to get back.
And I'm not sure I want to get it back, because that was Mama's intention.
Over a period of time, as I acquired more and more of the materials, the archive,
And again, another thing, by the way, I'm taking an offshoot here ancillarily.
What Victoria liked about what I was doing was that I was writing about the collection.
I was writing piece after piece about the other few that happened.
I don't know how you cut that.
I was going to cut that pattern, Virginia.
Well, Victoria and I became extremely close, and we were for many, many years.
How long had it been on deposit in Virginia now at this point?
I would say 15 years at least.
So they figured it was theirs.
They did indeed believe it was hers, and that again was theirs.
They believed it was theirs.
It had been there, and they thought by statute of limitations or by default or just by quiesce,
that it belonged to them.
But let me tell you a story when you're done with this, all right?
Okay.
That sat there, and they just knew it was theirs.
Victoria had now sold me virtually everything in the collection, and we got down to the one book.
I said, Victoria, it is extremely important.
Yes, but I didn't want it because it was valuable.
I wanted it because... I wanted it because it needed to be with the rest of the archive.
I said the fact that your mother put it there was only because it was so valuable that she was afraid something would happen to it.
You felt no pains about absconding from Virginia with this.
I didn't have gone.
That's a long run.
Pulling it out from under them.
Quite the contrary, I thought it was extremely important.
And then she became aware that if Virginia had ever wanted that book, why hadn't they made her an offer?
So, I didn't like to hear that from Victoria.
I had made Victoria a rather, what I thought was a sizable offer, or the one that she would find sizable, of $5,000.
What happened was that Virginia,
When Victoria wrote them the first time saying, I would like the book that my mother put on deposit, the wishing tree, will you please send it back at once?
That's all she wrote in the first letter.
She did not write in the letter that she was selling it.
She said, I would like the book, will you please send it to me?
There was a period of about three weeks when she had no response.
There's cardiac arrest going on.
She called them.
She said, I hope you receive my letter.
She said, I hope you appreciate that I wrote and that you got my letter.
I would like you to send my book.
They said, oh, we did get the letter.
We really didn't know what that implied.
She said, well, I'll write you another one.
I want you to please send the book.
I am contemplating disposing of the book, and she put it that way, and I knew at that point now, we're back and forth, and I've been down in Cape Coral, and then I had gone home, and then she said, well, I feel obliged, I felt obliged to tell them why I wanted the book.
I said, oh, I wish I hadn't told them that.
So she said, I am considering disposing of it.
They said, oh, well, Mrs. Johnson, in that case,
we would like to have an opportunity to acquire that book.
She wrote them the second letter saying, will you please send the book?
And they wrote back a letter saying, will you give us an opportunity?
She wrote them back again saying, Mr. Brodsky, I have been offered.
I have had an offered tender to $5,000, and I intend to sell it to a collector.
They said, we will offer you
$10,000.
Oh, no, no, no, no, sorry.
Let's get this right.
They said, we will offer you $5,000 for that item.
She called me and she said, they have made a counteroffer that equals your offer.
What am I supposed to think of that?
I said, Victoria, number one, I want the book to come to this archive.
It belongs here.
All the other things, all your family photographs, your letters, everything.
She said, yes, that's true.
I certainly want it there.
But they've offered me five.
I said,
Does that make you angry?
She said, indeed, it didn't make me angry.
She's very outspoken.
And why it made me angry was because if they had wanted it, why never before had they made me an offer?
Much the same that Dorothy Cummins said.
She said, that makes me very angry.
They've had that book for many, many years, and they have never so much as asked me if I might be willing to sell them the book, which at an earlier time, I probably would have.
She said, now I'm quite angry.
I said, Victoria,
I will double my offer now, and I offer you $10,000 for the book.
She said, that is sufficient, and I will not give them a chance to make another countdown.
So I paid $10,000.
She wrote them again and said, I wish, I demand my book back.
They sent the book, a special delivery.
I was down at Victoria's in Cape Coral when the book arrived.
Cape Coral, Florida.
The Jeep arrived, and the postal lady got out and brought the package that I showed you.
from which I took that book.
It was such an exciting moment.
Victoria got the book.
I said, Victoria, you open the package.
She handed it to me.
I said, you open the package.
She started to weep.
She said, this is such a beautiful, beautiful book.
She said, my mama always had it.
And she would read to me the story because Pappy had written it for her.
And she would often read it to me as a good night story.
It was this beautiful child story of little Dorothy.
That's right.
Pull that one out.
I'm trying to remember the story myself.
I worked on it.
The point is, she started weeping.
And I got really weeping.
And I was weeping because I was so moved that we'd gone through this long thing.
All the time I knew that I was going to lose that book to Virginia.
That they were going to end up offering some astounding offer.
of like 25, 30, 40, 50 grand.
I didn't have the money.
I'm sure if they had offered that, that she would have taken it.
And I didn't have the money.
I knew the book was worth a lot of money.
I knew the book was worth an awful lot of money in the book market.
I also knew that I wasn't trying to buy that book to resell it.
I also knew that I didn't have past $10,000.
My mother gave me as a Christmas gift that Christmas.
I came up with $5,000 that I borrowed, and my mother paid the other $5,000.
This is the last five years, right?
I'd say the last five years, yes.
And it was a wonderful acquisition.
And I bet you left Florida and didn't look back.
Oh, and I couldn't.
Do you do paperwork when you do this?
Yes, yes, we had a bill of sale.
But that, again, was part of it.
I donated that to the state of Missouri.
But what I'm saying is, she couldn't come back now and say I've changed my mind over and given you $5,000.
No, she couldn't in Wooden.
Wooden's a value judge.
I'm looking for an agreement.
I have a written agreement.
We have bills of sale that we made for all of those items.
And she also has my guarantee.
And I also have it quite clearly stated in the agreement I made with Southeast Missouri State that all of those materials were gifted.
Are we all set?
I think so.
That's three years.
I haven't followed up a lot of this stuff.
I was going to tell you a little upshot or coda to the Emily Stone story about going to Montgomery and acquiring that archive.
I met Emily three and a half years later.
When I came to Emily the first time, she was so destitute.
She had not enough money to buy food.
She didn't have enough money to buy herself a new pair of glasses.
She was so grateful to me.
L.D., I'm so grateful that you bought these, and I'm so happy that you have these.
Thank you so much.
And I gave her $35,000, which was $15,000 less than her asking price had been three years prior.
And during the three years it had been there at $50,000, no one had bought it.
Nobody had seen it.
I told you that.
Three and a half years after I bought it.
the materials, I saw her in Jackson, Mississippi at a conference on Faulkner and the Law.
She was so nasty toward me and so mean-spirited because apparently someone told her that she had sold the materials too cheaply.
You know, when something sold, it's a whole lot easier for everybody else to want it.
And once the checks cleared and the money sped, then it was like something delicate.
So three and a half years later, she held it against me that I had bought the collection from her.
That was really infuriated because it was really dishonest on her.
My point is I would love to know.
I'd love to talk to somebody.
Well, Victoria might tell you why it was.
She had great respect for me.
Yeah, I'm not looking for it.
She put them there again.
She sold them to me.
because she trusted me. Where does she live in Florida? I've got her address. I'll give it to you, but if you don't mind I'll tell you what let's think about it. Okay I think you ought to think about it. You think about it. The caliber of my scholarship made it much easier for Victoria to see my books that were published, for Victoria to have me tell her, Victoria I will publish a book on the Fieldens. There was virtually nothing written about her family, the Franklin side. Cornell Franklin
married Estelle before William married Estelle.
The Franklins have been treated very shabbily.
I said to Victoria, I will do a lot of writing on the subject of your family.
That appealed to her immensely.
That wonderful interview I did, a version of that was first published in Southern Review.
I promised her that if I could pull it off, I would publish it as an article, in a magazine, as a chapter in a book, and that ultimately I would make a book
devoted to the Faulkner-Franklin-Fielden Archive.
And I yet have to do that.
Now, that was an unwritten but spoken promise that I made the Archie trust in me.
And I will hold to that, too.
I intend to make a book on the Faulkners, the Franklins, and the Fieldens.
It's a wonderful, wonderful book.
I see it already.
I just haven't gotten to make it yet.
It'll include memorabilia, letters,
Photographs like crazy.
Wonderful.
So she trusted me and she wanted those archives in this collection.
She knew I would do something with them.
Franny Bennett, Dorothy Cummins' daughter, knew that I would do something with them.
They felt very strongly that Princeton had neglected them and would continue to neglect them.
That's how those two stories are.
Kenneth Burden's done some of this stuff.
Tell me about it.
I'm not aware that he's done much of that.
Well, I think you got the... I think the whole notion of ethics, if you're a collector, is absolutely tantamount.
It's paramount.
It is so important, and it was always in the forefront of my mind.
I knew that I was very limited in terms of the cash I had, Nick, to spend on any of these acquisitions.
I wasn't a public institution, and I didn't have Carter Burden's money, no matter what you might think.
I did get my dad to help me, and over a period of time, he did help me.
but his help was not of the kind that Carter's expenditures required, not even close. And I was not, and my dad is quite wealthy but the last thing he would ever do would be to take his money in any significant way spend it on books, because he thought that was totally triples and he always did. So what I did from my dad would be an occasional five or ten thousand dollars. I'm talking about maybe once every couple years
to help me foot a bill, but that was the kind of thing, and that was grudging to get it out of him. So I had to be a little innovative in the way I'd done. So when I went into something like I did. As an example with The Wishing Tree, that if in the back of my mind I knew that book were a 50 to 60 thousand dollar book conceivably if I could go to the market and turn it around in there. I also knew that it wasn't worth that to me because i never had the money like that to spend it and it wasn't worth it to me because I wasn't going to sell it
So that changed the whole parameter for me.
I said, what is it worth?
You can justify it.
I would justify it honestly.
Because in your soul, you knew that the ultimate destination would be a repository.
That's precisely how every one got justified.
And I would tell people up front.
And I would not tell them, well, this book might be worth more.
That wasn't part of it.
But I would tell them, and I always knew I was never lying or deceiving, that these books would stay together.
that they would go together with other books.
I would say to someone like Bill Cummins, now your books are together with Malcolm Cowleys and Phil Stones.
And the more collecting I did, the more impressive that became.
And people wanted their collections to be with the big collections.
And I really got to the point where I was extremely articulate with giving them my bill of sale, as it were, or my little shtick.
The bottom line is
It wasn't a line of shit.
It never was.
And I knew in my heart, I never once would deceive anybody.
If I told Victoria Johnson that if I ever sold those books, I would let her have them back at the price she paid, that means she could double or quadruple them.
I wouldn't give her money back and go quadruple them in the market.
I would give her the books back.
That is where I go off the record scene.
The image of a book collector.
One of the things that would astound people that I would write or speak with on the phone is that when we would meet in person, they were amazed that I was as young as I was, that I had as much energy, that I was as seemingly virile as it were.
It was very peculiar to me to meet people who would have naturally assumed, I found out, that I was an old man, that I was cigar-smoking, that I was pot-bellied, that I was effeminate.
For some reason, book collectors seem to have created an image for themselves in the public eye that is one of effeminacy quite often.
That may have changed.
I was quite often astounded, as I said, to find that I was
presenting a different image than the one they anticipated finding.
Book collecting is endemic now.
It is now.
I think that I never was the kind of book collector that one might think of as being ascetic, sedentary, how else, sort of slight, if you will, either that or the other one, the other end of it, whatever.
Reticence.
I was very aggressive.
I was very out.
Sort of a milk toast.
Yes, and I never was that.
And I'll tell you what, I didn't find book collecting to excite me that way.
That would be the person who worked in the catalogs again.
Someone who really never ventured out.
For me, the adventure of collecting
was the venturing hour.
Now that's a nice quote.
And for me, collecting had to be dynamic.
It had to be an interaction between people.
Throughout these hours of tapes, I've told you a number of the people that I visited, but the visits were what made the collecting worthwhile.
Knowing Victoria Johnson, knowing Malcolm Cowley, having Malcolm offered to edit my book, Mississippi Vistas, things of that nature.
Having Cleant Brooks endorse my books over the years because he respected me as a poet as well as a Faulknerian.